Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Keep it moving.
All right. I put two bottles of HEET in
and pulled your battery cable.
The engine light should stay off long
enough for you to pass the smog check,
- but you gotta go, like, right now.
- Yo! Hurry it up!
That's gonna be 15 for the HEET,
10 for the labor.
Un minuto, huh?
And drive slow, all right?
Like abuela slow.
Hey! I got places to go. Let's go!
Can I open now?
Yo! Let's go! Hurry it up!
Hey, un minuto!
Chill out, man, I'm working here!
You'll get out in a bit.
You never even talk to him.
Don't worry about it. Come here.
Hey, I don't wanna make you late
for your costume party.
Hey, how much you got for me today?
Hey, Hector, you know,
if I had a penny I'd give it to you.
Better have something tomorrow.
You okay?
It's just, the floor's slippery.
Whatever, it's fine.
It's fine.
Careful.
The U.S. Armed Forces and NASA
are the proud sponsors
of the Fifth Annual
Underwater Robotics Competition.
This prestigious contest to be held this year
in Santa Barbara, California
highlights student innovation
in technology.
- Participants could get scouted...
- Oscar Vazquez?
Here I have my application
and all of my JROTC certificates.
I made my way up to Staff Sergeant.
Sir, I was told with my service
I could enlist E3, Private First Class?
An advanced ranking
shouldn't be a problem.
Just give me your birth certificate
and I'll start a file on you.
Sir, I have a friend in Iraq.
And he tells me that it's so hard
to recruit right now...
He says that sometimes
it's okay if a paper or two are missing.
Your friend is mistaken.
Look, if you find your birth certificate,
please come back.
You'd make a great recruit.
If not, if it's permanently unavailable,
don't go presenting yourself
to any government office.
For your own well-being.
You've heard of immigration
Customs Enforcement, right, son?
ICE. Yes, sir.
Storm.
Dad finds out you've been stealing,
he'll kill you.
- It was just, like, once.
- What was once?
I was just saying, I got a new job.
It's nothing regular though.
- You skim?
- No, that's all of it.
You're getting really good at this.
People are gonna think
you're my daughter.
They're gonna have to double-check.
So, it may take a little bit longer
to process the papers.
Oscar.
Karen, please. Just one minute.
I am so sorry. I apologize.
Fire Marshal. Don't ask.
So...
No formal teaching experience.
No. But I did train people sometimes.
And new engineers aren't always
the most adjusted people.
And the training that you did,
this was at Aerotech,
or you were at NextCorp for four months,
or the three months at InterCon?
You probably guess
what my follow-up question is gonna be.
Where do I get my stamina?
In the engineering world, it's quite common
to jump from project to project.
Really?
Because prior to all that you worked
at the same firm for 15 years.
What, all of a sudden, makes Mr. Stability,
with a Ph.D., by the way,
careen, you know,
from job to job to job?
Do you always grill
potential substitutes like this?
Look, Mrs. Lawson is on maternity leave
for another four months.
If you last that long, it'll be longer
than most of my permanent hires.
Then you can't be choosy, can you?
I don't have to make you pee
in a cup, do I?
No. Unless that's how
you get your kicks.
So, why teaching? I mean, why now?
You know, I've always wanted
to give back.
You know, mold young minds,
do good in an under-served community.
It's almost impossible
to estimate how many of our students
go on to higher education.
Probably a third
claim they're going to college.
But most of them drop out
after a semester or two.
I mean, it's not easy.
Half of them are undocumented.
And then, every once in a while,
one of their classmates disappears
and is deported to Mexico the next day.
Well, tell them Principal Lowry
would like to see them try.
It's a crazy system.
Stop it. Now.
And you're gonna wanna start drinking tea
'cause your throat will get sore.
Even if you're not a yeller.
It happened to me.
- Karen!
- Yeah.
The computers in the library are fried.
We are down to three machines now
for 2,000 students.
Okay. So, 1,997 of them will have
to play videogames somewhere else.
This is Gwen Kolinsky. She... Hold up.
Wait. It was in the meatloaf?
What do you think was in the meatloaf?
Who are you again?
I'm Fredi Cameron.
I'm the new science sub.
Thank God.
Last one was a global warming denier.
That's crazy.
Now, the moon landing.
Now that, I just don't see it.
That's a nice suit
for a substitute teacher.
Is it too much?
I didn't know about the dress code
and I never really taught before.
Private sector guy.
Is that a bad thing?
Excuse me.
God.
What, your car overheat?
The temperature safety sensor.
Well, here goes a couple hundred bucks.
That's nice.
Can I have the number
for a local towing company?
Hey, look man,
you don't gotta scrap the whole thing.
You just gotta override it.
What'd you say your name was?
Lorenzo Santillan.
I'll do it for 20 bucks.
How about you let me
borrow your tools for 10?
Man, if you don't like my prices,
go see what it costs you for the tow.
Fine. 20.
Hey, this ain't a social call.
I get paid in advance.
All right.
You went to all the trouble
of reversing my sensor wires
and all you're taking
for it is 20 bucks?
This is Theresa Cruz
from Cruz and Associates.
I just wanted to let you know
that our positions are currently filled,
but go ahead
and check back in three months.
We may have another opening.
Thanks so much.
Hi, this is a message for Fredi Cameron.
This is Bob Board returning your call.
Unfortunately, we do not have
any openings right now.
But if you'll check back with us
in about three months,
maybe something will appear then.
Thank you.
Newton's first law of motion.
A body at rest will stay at rest.
A concept, in the last 45 minutes,
you seem to understand very well.
Really, nobody's gonna crack open
a book, nothing?
They're in there.
Why do they lock this?
So we don't steal 'em.
Great.
A reminder that academic clubs
begin today after school.
To see which ones count
toward mandated community service,
please consult the list
outside the main office.
Versatility is crucial.
This ROV from last year
utilized multiple hinges on its gripper
for greater range of motion.
Hey...
Oh, man, really?
Sorry I'm late, sir.
- I had to wait for a computer.
- Are you for the club?
The Engineering Club?
Yeah, you're Dr. Cameron, right?
When Ms. Lowry told me
that I had to oversee a club,
she also assured me
that no one would show up.
With all due respect, sir,
is this club on or not?
Because I just spent an hour researching
this competition that I would like to enter.
Okay, you see, in order
to enter this competition,
we would have to build a remotely-operated
vehicle that swims underwater.
I mean, you know
this is the desert, right?
- Permission to speak freely, sir?
- Sure.
There's an ROV up on Mars.
I'm pretty sure
it wasn't built up on Mars. Sir.
Okay.
Well, this is a highly
advanced piece of machinery.
And as you can see,
last year's winner was MIT.
So, you wanna go up against
the best tech school in the country
- in an engineering contest?
- No, no. Sir, sir.
There is a separate division
for high schools.
I'm sorry, I didn't get your name.
- Oscar Vazquez.
- Okay, Oscar.
It's not that I'm not into
playing the whole Don Quixote thing.
It's just... I'm not gonna
be here that long.
The competition's in three months.
You're here for four, right?
It says they scout
for internships and jobs.
But it's getting harder for kids like me
to get anywhere near that stuff.
You know what, Oscar?
Find a couple more kids and it's on.
A reminder.
Those assigned to Anger Management
must report fifth hour, room L-345
for the especially angry.
You're not recruiting
on school grounds, are you,
Private Vazquez?
No, ma'am.
There's no "private."
Things just didn't work out.
Don't worry about me.
I got this going on
with the new sub, Dr. Cameron.
This looks really great.
I'm not so sure
how long he plans on staying around.
I think I'll take my chances.
That's what I like about you.
I'm leaving you guys this.
Y'all gotta check it out, okay?
- Have you talked to Cristian yet?
- Hey, here's a...
Who's Cristian?
No! I almost cracked
Bertrand's postulate.
Do you know how many steps that is?
Doing you a favor. You really want
people seeing you do math for fun?
Hey, you want me to program
the cheat codes so you can't die?
- Yeah.
- Yeah?
Cristian, you little...
Hey!
Hey, you seen that little twit Cristian?
He's got, like, a striped shirt?
It's all to scale.
I... And for materials,
I was thinking syntactic flotation foam?
I sourced a grade
that's stable up to 1,000 meters.
Did you do this by yourself?
Well, I used a picture
from the flyer that I saw.
I just corrected its design flaws.
It's elegant.
Great. Okay.
So, we can start building, right?
Yeah, well, hang on, guys.
The first rule of engineering is
you never build anything with real material
until you build
a proof-of-concept model.
We can use hangers for the frame.
Styrofoam for ballast?
Toggle switches.
Your mission,
if you choose to accept it,
is to explore a sunken World War II
submarine and the surrounding area.
Using your on board cameras
for guidance,
you must navigate
through an eight-part course
that will test your ROV's agility
and efficiency.
Your ROV should be prepared
to measure the length,
width and temperature
of designated objects,
diffuse any potential threats
from artillery or biochemical warfare...
Did you get to the part
where you have to retrieve a liquid
from some kind of drum
without getting any pool water in it?
Well, now that you've ruined the ending.
You know, Oscar Vazquez thinks you're
really going to see this thing through.
You say that like he's wrong.
He already ran into one brick wall.
I don't want him running
face first into another.
You want me to shut this down
so I don't disappoint him.
- Is that what you came to say?
- No.
I came to ask if you know PBASIC,
because you're going to need it
to program your robot.
Is that different than basic BASIC?
It's been a while.
Come by Wednesday night.
Not to brag or anything,
but I'm kind of a coding savant.
That's great. Thanks.
What time do you want me there?
7:00 it is.
The paint's chipped,
but they still work.
I just need the motors inside.
These are great. Thank you.
I can help with clothes, too,
if you want to fix all of that.
What's wrong with this?
Everything.
If you're not gonna wear
a uniform anymore,
you gotta figure out
what kind of guy you are.
Are you a preppy guy?
Not a grungy guy.
Wait a minute.
How do you know what I wear?
I've decided you're a good guy.
Take your shirt off.
Right here?
Yeah.
No, no, no.
You can't. Don't tuck it in.
All right. You got 11 weeks.
Okay, so I drew up weekly targets.
Four weeks for R&D and two for...
You okay?
I didn't close the circuit, did I?
I'd put money on no.
I thought you were a genius.
I'm more of a theory guy.
I don't really make anything.
Are you allowed to build for us, sir?
If you think you have a chance to make it
to the competition in California, no.
'Cause you guys would be disqualified.
Then you're gonna have to
help us find someone who can.
You need a better angle.
Here.
You see the control I got?
That's all geometry.
I mean, that's all stuff
that you can learn in the Robotics Club.
Nerd club? No gracias.
Hey, they really need someone like you.
It's not my problem.
You know whose car this is? Yeah?
Well, let's see what Ms. Lowry thinks
about you casing her Lucinda Williams CDs.
Hey.
Santillan, I have missed you.
How long has it been? Two weeks?
Come on in. Come on.
No, not you. Just him. Thank you.
So, Lorenzo...
What do you know about Tuscany?
Nothing. I know, me neither.
I don't know anything about it.
But I intend to.
Because, by the end of the school year,
I'm gonna have enough miles
to get myself a free ticket,
and I plan on eat, pray,
loving my way through the place.
You're looking at me like,
why is she telling me this?
It's because it means
absolutely nothing can happen to my car,
that's gonna cost me any money.
Look, like I was telling him.
Him? You mean, Dr. Cameron?
Because I would strongly suggest
that you be respectful to him.
- Okay, so Dr. Cameron was the...
- Because in case you don't realize it,
he is the one who stands between you
and a jail cell in the country
of his choosing.
Anytime, kid.
I apologize for, like, what I did.
And...
And I'll do anything you say
to make it right.
I know this is wrong,
but this is my favorite part of the job.
Bye.
Lorenzo, right?
These are snap-action switches.
It's what regulates
a refrigerator light.
My fridge light doesn't do anything.
What's he doing here?
This is our new mechanic, Lorenzo.
No. Not gonna happen.
Cannot have him on the team, sir.
All right, cool. See you guys.
Hey, come on. Sit down. All right?
You don't know this kid, sir.
He's a weak link.
Well, actually, I do kinda know the kid.
He's your linchpin.
Which means we're not gonna
have any attitude, right, linchpin?
Lorenzo, there are four motors.
The two on the bottom control forward
and backward and also left and right.
These two on top...
Control up and down.
Can I go now?
You can if it works.
Front, back,
left, right.
If you want up down,
you've gotta get another switch.
If you wanna control speed,
I'd spring for a joystick,
you know, and all the stuff
that comes with it.
Lorenzo, this is really great work.
Whatever.
I guess if we can get him
to perform like this regularly...
I'm sitting right here.
Did you want to be
part of the planning process?
Do you really want
to help us work out our timeline?
Okay, great team spirit. Okay.
You know, when we're done
with the timeline,
you guys ought to think
about some personnel
to lift the full-size ROV out of the water,
and it's not gonna be light.
Usually, it takes two guys.
And I'd love to help you,
but we'd all be disqualified.
Did you pay for this with my money?
It's free, Hector.
So you don't mind
if I just play with it like that?
Hey! He ask you to do that?
We're just playing, Luis.
We're just playing, right?
But we're done for now, huh?
What are you doing after school?
Take a good look at this
'cause everything that's on here
is something
that you guys don't have money for.
- What's MIT?
- Massachusetts institute of Technology.
A school full of hims.
Yeah, but you're not up against them.
You're up against all the kids
who will go there eventually.
Probably have access
to more money than you do, so, yeah.
You guys got some ground
to make up, okay?
If I were you, I would start
by hitting up the local businesses first.
Okay, wait. Real quick.
How much can we put you down for, sir?
I'd really love to help,
but advisors aren't allowed to donate.
Big disqualifications.
But I'm sure you guys
will have good luck out there.
No, I'll fix stuff, but I'm not gonna
be that poor kid begging.
All right, look, I get it.
Okay, my last job,
I had to beg rich guys for money
all the time, and you're right.
It does suck, and it makes you feel
all low and pathetic, but you gotta do it.
You gotta put yourself out there
or you're never gonna get the grant,
you're never gonna get the job...
And you're never gonna get the girl.
Like that one?
Really, is that all you guys
think about?
In other words,
she's out of your league.
Yeah, she's out of everyone's league,
thank you.
You should go talk to her.
You guys want me
to go over there and ask her out?
- Yeah.
- Yeah. Go!
Are we looking at a teachable moment?
Sure.
You're so inspiring.
All right.
But remember,
this is gonna be harder than anything
you guys are gonna ask for today.
- Yeah, we'll keep that in mind.
- Okay.
Hey, Gwen.
Yeah.
I need you to slap me. Hard.
Like I said something offensive to you.
Okay.
Who is gonna look bad here though,
you or me?
Oh, no. Definitely me.
Okay. Well... Just...
I can't just slap you out of nowhere.
- Just say something to me.
- Okay, you mean...
- Get a little more motivation.
- You need to get in character?
Yes, you got it.
I think women are all horrible teachers.
- Not bad. Keep going.
- Okay.
All school funding should be slashed.
All the heroes in the school system
are really the politicians.
They deserve all the credit.
And girls doing math?
I mean, really?
Was that good?
- Did you like that?
- Yes, I liked it. Thank you. I liked it.
Sorry.
All right. You see? Somehow I survived.
How much do we need?
I'm raising money for my Robotics Club.
Every cent of your donation would go
towards robotics parts and travel expenses.
I'm sorry, man. Can you read?
Myself and my fellow soldiers
really appreciate it.
It's the least we can do.
Thank you for your help, ma'am.
No, thank you for your service.
It's always a pleasure to support
the young people in our community.
So, now let's see what we can...
Gosh, you know, it looks like
we're kicked for this calendar year.
Do you plan on entering next year?
Ma'am, we're really focused
on this year.
Okay. Well, I can give you
what we have left.
But it's only about $100.
I hope that's okay.
Who should I make it out to?
Carl Hayden Robotics.
Here you go.
Thank you very much.
Hi, is your mom home?
We have a coding lesson.
That's not even a euphemism.
It's okay, honey. You can let him in.
Do you like cats?
'Cause I see a little figure of a cat.
That's a beautiful name, Maddy.
My dad named me.
Well.
- You made it.
- Yeah.
So you'd put an analog-like
function here?
Now you're getting it.
Maybe I'm not as dumb as I look.
Or maybe you are.
I'm just that good a teacher.
I don't think so because you missed
a bracket five lines up.
I was just too nice to say anything.
- I don't know what you mean.
- I got it!
Good save.
- No, that's not...
- It's Dad.
Take your time.
What's up?
Hello... Again.
She's not gonna date you, you know.
This is a school thing.
I'm not trying to...
She doesn't date anybody.
I find that hard to believe.
Maddy! Maddy, Maddy,
get your little butt in here, now.
Three Maddys. I'm gonna pick this up
and I'll take it into the kitchen, Maddy.
Why did you tell your father
this was a date?
If he gets jealous enough,
he'll come back.
I don't know
if you heard any of that back there.
Yeah.
You don't need to explain anything.
I mean, we all have our stuff.
Yes?
- What's your stuff?
- Me?
Now that you've heard my stuff.
I don't have stuff.
I mean, I meant everybody but me.
So, hey, thanks for the coding lesson.
That was great.
Yeah, I wanted to see how serious
you were about all this robotics stuff.
Did I pass the test?
You showed up. That's not nothing.
All right, well,
have a good night, Gwen.
You gonna be safe walking in
by yourself?
You can keep your eye on me.
Will do.
You know, nobody forced you
to take me out or anything.
You could've saved yourself seven bucks
if you weren't into it.
I brought you here
'cause this place means a lot to me.
It does.
I was six and my mom hid me
and my cousin in the back of this van.
I must have spent, like,
eight hours hunched in there.
Just trying not to throw up or cry.
And once we crossed the border,
they got us all burgers.
I was way too carsick to eat.
I mean,
way carsick.
So, I fell asleep.
When I woke up, I was starving.
But my burger was gone.
And all that was left
was just this little tiny wrapper.
Wanna know what happened?
- Somebody ate it.
- Yes.
My stupid cousin ate it
while I was sleeping.
No burger for me.
My abuelita came over like that.
I mean, no stupid cousin
or anything, but it's similar.
So, even though
it's never happened,
I kind of get what you're saying.
Thank you.
For what?
For knowing
I'm the kind of girl who'd get that.
Yo, big guy. Coach wants to see you.
All right, yo, peace!
See you later, bro.
- Hey, buddy.
- Hey!
Like beating little kids?
How do you like this?
Pick on someone your own size!
I've never carried around
this much money before.
- I still can't believe you made $652.
- And 53 cents.
Waterproof electric motors.
Aren't they spectacular?
They're small, they're powerful,
they're $299.99.
Times four?
$1,199.96.
I'll go get change for the bus.
No! We're not giving up.
Wait a minute.
What if we get a bunch of tiny motors
and just hook 'em up together
and cluster them together?
Okay, fine.
What if we just get
one of these motors and...
Trolling motors.
They gotta be strong, right, to move boats.
And they're cheap as hell.
We can buy four
and then we can hack off the poles.
But they're a lot larger. I mean,
we'd need more metal to fill the frame.
Who says they gotta be metal?
Hey, this is great work, guys.
And $20.
Sir, you're still short $432.54.
What if we got rid of these?
Sorry, we can't do anything
without the fuse panels,
or the micro-controllers, or the batteries,
or the laser tape measure.
It'll run without
the laser tape measure.
Dr. Cameron,
if we don't have the laser tape measure,
- I don't think...
- We'll figure it out later.
Can you remove the laser tape measure?
Thank you.
You are still short $134.63.
Can I borrow your pen?
I thought you couldn't donate.
It's a robotics contest,
not a fundraising contest.
Besides, who's gonna know?
Hey, and my man
ate a couple ice creams on the way in.
Can I have an ice cream?
Too late. I already wrote the check.
It's for NASA.
You got something here, Lorenzo.
What's your story, Camerones?
Why are you here?
The bus ride isn't long enough.
No, but I mean, seriously,
what are you doing here?
I mean, did you screw up
your real job or something?
Or something.
Well, can I ask you one more thing?
All right.
If we win this contest,
can we go to Hooters?
If we win,
I'll get you a date with one of them.
Mrs. Vazquez?
Yes.
Ms. Kolinsky.
I was Oscar's math teacher last year.
Of course, how are you?
He left this at home
and I know how strict they are.
I just wanted to say I'm so sorry
about how all that worked out.
What do you mean?
Mama, what are you doing here?
Excuse me, Oscar.
With this man who speaks Spanish
like a 3 year old?
Señora Vazquez?
This isn't just for play.
A student who won last year
got a job at Teledyne.
- And they got scouted by a lot of other jobs.
- They had papers.
You think they're gonna let you work
or go to college
if they won't even let you serve?
Mama. Mama!
Mama!
Come on.
No, it's a very attractive offer,
and you know I would love
to work with you guys.
It's just bad timing.
Yeah, you know,
a substitute is temporary by definition,
but, I'm gonna try to see it
all the way through here.
The oral questioning part of the competition
is worth 30% of the final score.
Each team member
will be interviewed separately to ensure
that everyone knows
the structural and mechanical concepts.
- What?
- Nothing.
Here, why don't we
walk you through this?
The first thing is ROV electronics.
It's gotta stay on dry land.
You know,
the micro-controllers, the fuse panel,
the battery as a kind of command center.
Just call it all a brain.
Does that make sense?
The brain. I got it.
All right.
Stick close. We'll take it slow.
See, underwater video cameras
are a couple hundred bucks.
But, we're taking standard ones
that we got for 19 bucks.
Putting them inside PVC pipe
and then topping them
with plumbing unions.
Smells like Luis' armpit.
This glue stinks!
We know we have to pick things up.
Some teams will have mechanical claws.
We'll have this.
Video said something
about retrieving a liquid.
So we'll suck it up
with this copper tubing,
fill up the balloon, and use the milk jug
to secure the balloon
which you'll retrieve, Luis.
That's where a laser
tape measure would go.
If we had one.
Well, any laser measurement
would have to be adjusted
by the index of refraction of water,
which is 1.33.
Although, right now
that seems a little moot.
All right. We'll go analog.
We'll hook this into the hull
and point a camera at it.
No index refraction of anything.
Good job, that's waterproof.
You see that seal right there?
We should name it.
After you guys are done painting tonight,
make sure you get a good night's rest.
Tomorrow you got a big day.
What's tomorrow?
Stinky's baptism.
And then, there's that.
He's full of surprises.
Ma'am, let me get that for you.
Here, let me help.
Thank you.
I saw something like this
in a horror movie once.
Hey, she'll get you there. I think.
So, obviously any gas
in the tank, up for grabs.
Anything you put in,
you won't be reimbursed.
And I suggest you stick
to the speed limit
with four undocumented kids in the back.
I have no idea how you got these keys.
Good luck, boys.
How long did your uncle say
we could be here?
An hour, two.
As long as we don't disturb the guests.
Hey, what's that down there?
Where?
Hey, look. Camerones, look.
There.
- Can that hurt Stinky?
- What?
Camerones.
Did you see... Did you guys...
Okay, wait a minute,
does he not know how to swim?
He's not dead.
Can you take our picture?
Is it even on?
Luis, pull it up.
How could the motors
not have enough power? They're huge.
It's not the size.
It's the efficiency
not reaching its full potential.
The power's degrading
over the length of the tethers.
- We could make the tethers shorter.
- Can't.
We need the length
to maneuver around the course.
All right, then we get better cable.
I mean, how much could it be?
Cable is cable. Even I know that.
Well, then why don't you
think of something then?
- Why does it have to be on me?
- Don't turn on each other, okay?
Don't turn on each other.
Nobody's expecting any miracles. Relax.
So, what do we do?
I suggest you continue
to study my notes.
And the rest of us? We'll think.
Stay here, mijo.
Do you think I'm stupid?
Everyone thinks I'm stupid.
There's a world of difference
between quiet and slow.
You'll show everyone
which one you are in time.
Was that a yes or a no?
Look, I'm telling you, it was me.
You're a much better artist than that.
Plus, the description that they have
is of a kid who's much shorter, right?
So, if we do find out
who's responsible for it,
we will handle it internally.
Thank you for coming out.
Nice try.
You go tell that brother of yours,
he's mine after school.
On the record or not.
Go.
- Everything all right?
- Yeah.
I would kill to get Lorenzo's father to
show up for a parent-teacher conference
or at least not hang up on me.
To tell him he has two sons.
He makes Lorenzo take the rap
for the younger brother.
Ramiro was born here and Lorenzo wasn't,
so he figures, the one with the papers,
he should keep his record clean.
Where I grew up, the kid with the papers
always took care of the family.
Hence my problem.
You know,
I hear Picasso started the same way,
without the hacking cough.
Hey, so there's a rumor going around
that you asked me out,
and then I kicked you in the groin.
- Okay, that's weird.
- Yeah.
A knee is really more my style.
Well, it's a better angle.
Geometrically.
So, what is this?
Well, since the marching band
only got like, four people,
I was thinking
of getting an accordion...
No. No, no, no.
We are not changing
the school anthem to a nacho corrida.
- Narcocorrido.
- I know.
Sorry. Have a jellybean.
- I have another idea.
- Okay. What is it?
We can get a tambura. It'd be fun.
Tambura, tuba, accordion,
tololoche.
You don't like tambura?
Mom. Did you talk to Uncle Rigo?
Is he gonna do the camping thing
with me next month?
Can I stay here a little bit longer?
It's kind of cold outside.
In the water. You wanna put the batteries
and the electrics and stuff in the water.
No. In a waterproof case, okay?
And the cables are gonna be short,
so we won't have a power issue.
Think about how well
it's going to handle.
And listen,
would you rather hold the camera
with one thin wire or four thick ones?
Well, good handling's not gonna matter
if we flood the battery.
I mean, one leak
and the whole thing's dead.
Guys. If we can't make
something waterproof,
then what are we doing
in an underwater contest?
So, that's gonna keep the brain dry?
Freaking better.
We've got what,
three days before the contest?
Two and a half, but who's counting?
All right. Who's gonna do it?
It's all you.
We did it!
Yes.
Putting the brain on Stinky was genius.
Our brain isn't in the water
in that new case,
our brain is right here!
Hey, can I talk to you
for a second, privately?
Sure.
All right, let's practice opening
and closing the claw.
But, you gotta keep it there.
Yeah, I know, but...
What's up?
This might be stupid.
But, I just...
There's this thing
I've been hearing about for, like, ever.
What thing?
It's like an outdoors thing
for fathers and sons.
They got these high-powered telescopes,
so you can see all the constellations.
Wow.
I'm really flattered
that you thought of me.
Let me,
you know, check the schedule
and see if the...
timing works out.
I knew you wouldn't be able
to do it anyway.
No, no, no. Hey.
I'm thinking.
It's not a big thing.
Dr. Cameron, I'm sorry.
Right over there.
Oscar.
You got a minute?
Give us a second.
What's up?
Immigration came
by the office this morning.
Six files of interest were taken.
Any chance
you gave us a phony home address?
My mother's there right now.
She's okay.
They want you, not her.
If I were you,
I'd crash at a friend's for a while.
Thank you for the heads up, sir.
Don't thank me for something
that never happened.
I thought
you weren't leaving until Thursday.
We found out if we get there early,
there's a lot more practice time.
It's gonna be great.
More practice time
and time to talk
to all those tech companies.
Yes.
What are you doing?
I fixed the fridge light.
Look. A micro-switch.
The thing that does that.
I'm learning about stuff
like this in Robotics Club.
They teach you about electricity?
Yeah, and all kinds of stuff like that.
Yeah? They didn't teach you
it costs money?
Where's your brother?
I don't know.
Are you gonna find out?
Any of you guys seen Ramiro?
Seen my stupid brother?
He just left.
Him and Asher went
to get money at the Tri-H.
There's no ATM at the Tri-H.
There is now.
Oh, man.
You want the guy,
or are you gonna pussy out
and go for the register?
- I'll do the guy. I don't care.
- All right.
Just to scare him.
Yo! You're out of Funyuns!
You got more in back?
Ran out. We'll get more on Thursday.
What do they got here? 30 bucks?
- What are you, stupid?
- Bro, you're messing everything.
- You got nothing to prove.
- You're a pussy, man.
- Now, dude! Now!
- Hey, don't move, cabrón!
Don't move.
Go, go, go.
I'm being robbed!
What's wrong with you?
Why would you do something like this?
- Get away from me!
- Why? Why did you do that?
Okay, run away!
Oh, man!
Crap!
Can I come in?
You need to talk to him. Your father.
No, look, he's gonna kill me, okay?
Look, the only job I got for my whole life
is to protect my little brother, okay?
And I messed that all up.
If you think that babysitting
your brother
is gonna be your life's work,
it's not you that's messing it up.
Could you tell him that?
What?
He doesn't listen to me.
Maybe you can get him
to see that, you know.
Lorenzo, it's really not my place
to get in the middle
of your family business.
Camerones.
I can't face him alone right now.
Can I come in?
I'm gonna let you know right now,
seven is my limit.
Okay. I'll try to keep it down.
Yeah, that's a good pour.
I'm gonna try to keep it down, too.
Like I could breathe fire.
This is good tequila.
Why are we drinking it?
Ramiro might call you later from jail
depending on whether they can get
any of his prints off the gun.
No, you got the wrong house.
You got the wrong kid.
I'm not trying to get
into your business.
I just think you need
to know what's happening.
No. You don't know anything about us.
Actually, I do.
I know your son very well.
And I know that he wrestled
a gun away from his brother
in a botched robbery
a couple of hours ago.
Lorenzo was there?
Lorenzo, get your ass out here now!
Your brother got picked up?
What's wrong with you?
I mean, I don't know.
I don't know if they got him. He ran...
I sent you to go find him
and you don't protect him?
Hey, don't talk to him like that!
No, you don't tell me
how to talk to my son!
Okay, look. I don't want to,
but if I have to, I will.
- What?
- You know who you're looking at?
Who the hell do you think you are?
- What?
You're looking at your son in 30 years!
That's right!
My father was a belligerent ass, too!
- Get out.
- I don't think you understand
- the potential he has.
- Get out!
Don't talk to me.
Listen, your son is an intelligent kid.
I'm not gonna ask you again.
Before it gets ugly.
Get the... Get out of my house.
Listen, Lorenzo's gonna be fine.
He's gonna survive you.
He's doing great.
Wait, wait, wait, wait.
So, I understand now.
You wanna be his father, huh?
Is that what this is?
You wanna be his father?
Let me tell you what that means.
That means you gotta be there every day
even if you have nothing. Okay?
And you gotta be there
and hide him when ICE comes
and knocks on your door
and takes your wife.
And every time
that he gives you disrespect,
or he misbehave, or get into trouble,
you gotta wonder to yourself,
maybe I saved the wrong one?
Okay?
And you still gotta look
over your shoulder
every day in case they come back.
Is that what you want?
You want this job?
I didn't think so.
Let's go.
Mr. Santillan, I just don't think
we need to end things like this.
What was that?
You invited...
My house?
And you treat him like
some kind of hero of yours?
Don't ever do that to me
or disrespect in this house!
I work hard for you!
I give you one job to take care of
your brother and you screw that up!
Don't ever talk to me like that again!
Hello, John Densmore, please.
Fredi Cameron calling.
Can you let John know
that I've been thinking about it,
and, I wanted to check
and see if the job was still available.
I'm an engineer.
That's what I know how to do.
Thank you, that's great.
Yeah, he can reach me here anytime.
I appreciate it. Thank you. Bye-bye.
No, no, no, no. You're going.
Hey, I can't.
Lorenzo, we cannot do this without you.
Like I said, I can't.
I need this. It has to happen!
Yeah, screw you!
What did you say?
I dare you to say it to my face.
Look, I'm not afraid of you.
All right, some paisano think he's gonna
be Captain America, huh?
- Yeah?
- Oh, yeah?
Hot shot. Think you're a big man?
You think you're better than me?
Come on, guys, cut it out!
Now!
What's going on?
You really have to ask?
You know what?
We keep going.
The rest of us. Without him.
We'll just spend the next day and a half
splitting up Lorenzo's stuff.
Bro. You good with that?
It's a blow to the team.
If you guys still wanna compete,
I guess we could go if you want to.
Are you even gonna be there?
Of course I am.
What are you talking about?
You know what I'm talking about,
Mr. Cameron.
He was talking on the phone.
With some guy named John-somebody.
What's he talking about?
It's got nothing to do
with the competition.
What's got nothing to do
with the competition?
He's taking a job. He's leaving us.
I haven't decided yet.
Are you or not?
Just tell us.
You know, what if I am? Okay?
I'm an engineer.
I'm not a teacher. It's not what I do.
It's not gonna interfere with Santa Barbara,
so what's the big deal?
Right, it's not a big deal.
Hey, go get 'em.
Hell!
You almost ruined your surprise!
Come here. Hi.
Can we talk?
Yeah.
Are you trying to break up with me?
Without a dead weight,
you can have a normal life.
- Real jobs. College.
- I don't think so.
If you don't wanna be with me,
then let that be that.
Don't be trying to set me free.
I don't give up that easily
and neither do you.
I can't go home!
I slept on the school floor last night.
In the bathroom!
It is not fair to you.
You do not wanna be with someone
who can get picked up anytime, anywhere!
I do if that guy's you!
There are things that I can't change.
You know what?
If you find Oscar,
tell him to open that in California.
Excuse me!
Can I talk to you a second?
You should know upfront,
it's not possible to make me feel any worse.
We'll see.
I heard you got a real job.
That's nice for you.
Okay, I was wrong. I could feel worse.
Here's the thing
about winning someone's trust.
You don't break it.
Every day in a hundred ways,
they are told that they are worthless.
That they are beyond hope.
Just when they think
that maybe they're wrong,
you just straightened them out.
They're not adults. They're kids.
They need protection.
Who's that?
That was my daughter, Rosie.
My wife was driving her to Gymboree
and a Range Rover ran a red light.
She was three.
And the worst thing,
where my wife was at in the accident,
she wasn't hurt at all.
She never got over that.
We never got over it.
So...
I go from job to job.
And then I show up here.
And I find these kids.
And the more they need me,
the more I start to wonder,
am I up for this?
Am I gonna let them down?
Are you?
In five years,
you guys might not even
remember my name.
But you'll always regret
that you had a chance to see the ocean,
and you didn't go.
You sure you got time for us?
More than anything else in the world.
You really wanna smuggle
four illegals across state lines?
Yeah, put you guys on top of the van.
Cover you with a blanket.
You'll look like picnic equipment.
Welcome to California, guys!
Look! The Pacific Ocean!
This is it.
Hey. That line's shorter.
That's the Explorer class.
That's the division
that's meant for colleges.
Meant for?
Could we enter with them
if we wanted to?
If we come in last
against other high schools,
then it'll be humiliating.
But if we come in last
against other colleges, then,
it'll be, like, expected.
Plus, look, even if we beat one college,
we'd have to feel pretty good
about ourselves, right, guys?
Yeah, yeah. Yeah, it's a good idea.
I like it. Come on.
You guys in high school?
Carl Hayden Community.
After the senator from Arizona?
Yeah. It was renamed after him in 1957.
He's our brain.
But, not exclusively.
I'm kind of a rounded kind of guy.
That's different.
No, I mean, it's like analog, you know.
Old school.
Is that a CCD camera in there?
Yes.
The male side of the PVC union
holds it with the O-ring
in the face plate,
and the female side is the
- polycarbonate cover.
- Polycarbonate cover.
Very cool. Have you seen MIT's yet?
Apparently, it's under
a tarp or something.
But it looks like the Death Star.
Anyway, good luck out there.
Okay, guys, let's surface
and put Stinky into position.
Okay. Pitch 40 degrees up, Lorenzo?
I'm trying. It's not, like, working.
Okay, wait a minute.
I can't go left either.
What's going on?
Look, I'm pulling it all the way back,
but it won't go up.
Pull Stinky. Pull him now.
A millimeter, maybe two.
But enough to short your electrical
during your run.
Can't we just smooth it out?
No, if you mess with the seal,
you always make it worse.
How do we fix it?
Wait. Who says we gotta fix it?
Luis, give me your sock.
So, what do you think, sir?
I mean, I like it.
It at least buys you time
for a longer run,
but, I think we could do better
than a sock,
a towel or a sponge?
I mean, let's think.
What's small and really absorbent?
Not it.
What's not it?
It's not gonna be me.
Men buy women tampons
all the time, guys.
It's not a big deal.
So, why don't you go do it?
I ain't going in there.
Excuse me, lady?
Sorry to bother you.
We're with this robotics competition
with NASA.
And our robot had a leak in the brain.
We were wondering if we could
soak the water up with something.
You want my help with what exactly?
You know, the things, that ladies use.
You mean tampons.
Hey, hey, guys?
These things are amazing.
This just absorbed 80 cc's of water.
Yeah, the lady said these were best for us
'cause they don't got applicators.
What does that mean?
Damn. Guys, guys!
Come and take a look at this.
Come on. That was perfect when I did it.
The sun was beating down
on it the whole time.
Please tell me that we can fix this.
Well, you'd have to start fresh.
You'd have to lose all this,
re-strip the wires and you'd have
to re-solder every one of the pins.
Okay, let's go, come on. Let's do it.
Hey, it took me five hours
the first time.
So?
So, it's late.
You know, if I nod off and nick one pin,
the whole connector would be shot.
I mean, Stinky'd be dead.
Stinky's as good as dead
if you don't do anything.
Our chances are a lot better
if you help.
Right there.
Look, I said some stuff about you
and the army and everything
and it wasn't cool.
It's all right.
I didn't mean it when I called you
a pinche pendejo either.
- You never said that.
- You weren't around.
Why'd you wanna join
the army so bad, anyways?
I wanted to serve
ever since I was a little kid.
They don't want us here.
They're the ones
that are trying to kick us out.
They took my mom back to Mexico.
I mean, I haven't seen her
for six years.
I'm sorry.
I can't even imagine
how hard that must be.
All right, there. One down, 31 to go!
Come on, buddy, get up.
Oscar, I know
it's not the uniform you wanted to wear.
But you're a team
and I wanted you to look like one.
I'm proud of you. I love you. Karla.
Hey, buddy. Hey, here!
Hey! I'm up!
Welcome, everyone, to the Fifth
Annual Underwater ROV championship!
Gathered here today
are some of the best and brightest
from 32 schools and 17states!
At the bottom of this pool
lies Mystery Reef
where a World War II sub
has been lodged for 50 years.
Each team will conduct
an eight-part mission with tasks
worth between five and 15 points
for a total of 100 points.
Now, every time you hear this...
A team has successfully
completed a task.
But if you hear this...
Not so successful.
But with any luck, when time is up
they've made it onto our leader board.
Now, remember, this mission test
is worth 70% of the final score.
Which leaves 30% for the oral
questioning with our judges.
Here we go, folks.
Let's get to the first team.
Mission order has been randomly selected,
and the first school up is,
Virginia Tech.
With 15 minutes on the clock,
your time starts now.
It's worth noting that teams
are allowed to come back to any task
that they might have missed
the first time around.
Now, all the tasks down there
can be completed in any order
except the first one.
Opening the hatch.
Teams must complete
that first task within 60 seconds.
If they fail to do so,
then a diver will be forced
to do it for them for a five point loss.
Yes!
And we're off! That's five points.
Ten more points.
And five more points.
This bar is going to be set high.
That's all right.
Don't let it rattle you.
They did the first three things, like,
in two minutes!
One minute and 42 seconds.
Maybe it's not that hard.
Next up is Cornell University.
Give us more tether!
It's not helping.
Next up, Duke University.
Stanford!
Florida!
Now, ladies and gentlemen,
the reigning champs, MIT!
- What's that?
- School full of hims.
Last year, they doubled the score
of their closest competitor.
Wow! This year, MIT has incorporated
modularity into their design.
What an elegant way for them to access
all their different components.
And you may begin now.
A quick five points for MIT!
That's another 10 points!
It's the quickest pace we've seen yet.
Do you remember when I said that this
division would be less embarrassing for us?
- Yeah.
- Yeah, maybe next time,
you shouldn't listen to me.
What are they doing?
This is interesting.
They seem to be
bypassing two tasks entirely.
If that's a strategy, it's a strange one
to go that far off course
and then have to double back.
Activate the dual lasers.
That's what you get for doubting
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
At this point, the only question
seems to be
how fast they'll complete the tasks.
That makes 70!
Engage the LED floods on my count.
Three, two, one.
That's 85 points.
They've taken over first place, people!
Just one task away now
from a perfect score.
Remember, there's the oral questioning.
You can make up the ground there
if you need to.
English isn't even our first language.
Additional tether, please.
Hang on here a moment.
Looks like MIT has run
into some trouble.
They appear to be caught,
putting their cage out of reach.
Wow! MIT has determined
the final task to be impossible.
So, with six minutes left,
they're stopping!
But they've still taken
the lead with 85 points.
Let's see if that score holds up
with our final team,
- Carl Hayden Community High School.
- Let's go, guys, all right!
Carl Hayden?
Okay, guy, come on!
Stay focused and work together, okay?
Carl Hayden, your time starts now.
All right, Luis, drop Stinky.
Okay, guys. We got this.
All right, going straight ahead.
Three meters down.
Okay, controllers are reliable now.
Okay, but we gotta move fast.
They're only giving us 60 seconds
for the first task.
I got no problem with fast.
Steady.
Come on. Come on!
It looks as though Carl Hayden
is having a difficult time
with the very first task.
Guys, we can still make it.
We still can. Come on.
Man, get out of there, dude.
We're not gonna need you.
Not a very promising start
for this young team.
- Come on!
- We still can, come on.
Focus, focus.
Ten seconds!
They're out of time!
There goes the diver to open the hatch.
That's a five point loss.
But, you know, Ken, isn't it a win
just to get on the course at all?
Guys, it's only five points.
There are 95 more in there.
Hey, enough with the red light.
Turn it off.
- Come on, come on.
- Okay, Lorenzo,
I'm going three degrees down.
- Could you be more exact?
- 2.73 degrees.
- Steady, steady.
- Clamp! Clamp!
Come on. Just a little more.
We got it! Yes! Yes!
Correct! That's 10 points
for Carl Hayden.
There you go!
Steady.
All right, easy, easy, easy!
Grab it!
There's half the task, folks.
Let's see if they can complete
the second half for a full 10 points.
- Pick it up!
- We got this.
Come on!
Just forget the bell.
We'll come back for it.
Time to go recover the Enigma.
Looks like they're bypassing
the second part, folks.
That's another five point loss.
But they did get those first 5 points,
so they're up to 20 points.
Five points ain't nothing.
Watch yourself.
- Steady, stay steady!
- I'm gonna fix it.
Go! Yes!
I love that sound.
And Carl Hayden has another 10 points.
That's 30, with half
of the course still to go.
You hear that? It's halftime, boys.
Let's finish strong.
There they go, toward the hard stuff.
Come on, Stinky, get it on there.
Drop it steady.
Easy! Easy!
Come on, there we go, there we go.
Come on! Come on!
Steady, yes, yes!
There we go. There we go.
All right, guys.
How far are we from the back wall?
Well, if we knew,
we wouldn't have to measure it.
Well, we need to be careful
not to because...
- Wait, hold on! Is it broken?
- No, look, it's still on.
Easy, easy.
Analog.
Another 15 points for Carl Hayden!
That's 45 points.
All right, Lorenzo, toggle to the camera
near the thermometer.
And it looks like
it's one meter down and 15 degrees left.
Guys, we need to remove the blue wire.
That light one
probably isn't blue, right?
We should've sprang for a color monitor.
It's 50-50. Which one do you like?
That one.
No, no, no, wait!
That one! That one! That one!
They disconnected the wrong wire!
That's a 15 point loss.
- Damn it! Sorry, guys.
- We got time left?
- Let's go get the bell.
- Wait, isn't there one more thing?
- Whatever's in the cave.
- All right! Let's go do it.
Oscar? Nobody else got it!
MIT said it was impossible.
Good thing we're dumb high school kids
who don't get that.
Okay! Based on what we already did,
the process of elimination means
the task inside is extracting the liquid.
Just a little more tether!
Luis, more tether!
We got this! We got this!
All right, keep going straight.
Two more meters.
You got it. Go, go, go, go, go, go!
- I can't.
- We must be caught.
It cannot be the tether.
Guys, try another angle.
Go back. Back 10 degrees.
Ten degrees left! Stay steady!
It looks like their thinner tether
is enabling them to get inside the cave!
Wow! We're in
unchartered territories now, folks.
All right, we're in now!
Take it easy!
All right, Lorenzo, pump.
The pump's working!
We got fluid and pressure!
All right, vamos, surface,
surface, come on!
Okay, 2.5 meters up and 30 degrees left!
Luis, stand by to grab the balloon.
Yeah!
All right!
Those are my boys! My boys!
Wow! With 75 points,
Carl Hayden has risen to fourth place
with 40 seconds left!
- We still have the bell, right?
- Yeah.
Luis, put Stinky back in the water!
Hurry!
Ladies and gentlemen,
Carl Hayden is going back for the bell.
Come on, Stinky, come on!
If they find that bell,
they'll be in the top three.
What are you doing?
Well, the monitors are dead.
We're not gonna stop
until the clock runs out.
Okay, grab the bell
and get it back on the hook.
- Come on, come on!
- Ten, nine...
The engines are at full power.
- Balance it out.
- Eight, seven...
Six, five, four...
Three...
Two, one!
Time's up! So, here are the standings
after the mission portion
of the competition.
MIT is in first place with 85 points!
Cornell and Virginia Tech
are tied for second with 80!
And in fourth place,
Carl Hayden Community with 75.
Guys, wait up!
Don't tell me you're upset.
We were so close.
You're in fourth place!
You beat more than 12 colleges.
You have a chance to take home a bronze
trophy if you do well in the orals.
He's right.
- Good evening, ma'am.
- Good evening.
Is Oscar Vazquez at home?
What is this about?
I'm here to talk to him
about the application he filed
to enlist in the United States Army.
Is he being reconsidered?
Well, that's what I'd like
to talk to him about.
He'll be so sorry he missed you.
He's away this weekend.
But he'll be back to this address?
I'm sorry,
did I make you think he lives here?
No, he and his mother
moved a couple months ago.
All right, guys. Time to caffeinate.
You know, before we hit the books too hard,
let's take a field trip.
So your mom doesn't think
you should come back at all, huh?
She just doesn't think it's safe.
I'm sorry, I just don't see
how this works out for any of us.
I mean, this is definitely not
how I thought my life would be.
There was a time not too long ago,
when I saw my whole life
stretched out before me.
And honestly, I...
I didn't see any good in it.
And you know what happened?
This pushy kid with a bad haircut
and a flyer walked into my club.
It's not so bad.
The haircut's not so bad.
For a guy like you?
A finish line always appears.
MIT!
Hey!
And pulse-width modulation, or PWM,
controls analog circuits
with digital outputs.
Right! The motors pulse and the speed
changes by the duration of the pulse.
Okay.
Luis, are you sure that you get this,
because we can go over it again.
Yeah, PWM, I'm good.
- Okay.
- All right, so...
Let's talk about weight,
mass and density.
- Okay.
- All right?
Mass is like a numerical measure
of its composition.
All right, guys! I'll be back.
Let me open to this chapter.
Gwen? Gwen!
They're fourth!
- What?
- Against college kids.
Yes! How are the boys?
What else did he say?
He said that they might get the bronze.
You should be there.
- They don't need me.
- No! No!
You need it!
Here! It's my frequent flyer account.
There's more than enough miles for two
adults and a kid to get to Santa Barbara.
No, no, Karen, I can't take this!
You've been saving up forever for this.
Just let me do this! Please!
Okay.
- Mr. Santillan?
- Hey!
Mr. Santillan.
Hi! How can I help you?
I'm Gwen Kolinsky.
I'm from Lorenzo's school.
We've had a number
of extremely brief conversations.
- At least the other guy, he brought tequila.
- Mr. Santillan, don't...
Do you even know
which state your son is in right now?
Tell us about the materials
you used to construct your ROV.
Our strain gauge
measured the pressure differential
across a flexible piece of material
whose resistance changed
with deflection.
A welded aluminum box frame,
which facilitated our modular design.
Well, we used PVC
'cause it's, like waterproof
and, like buoyant when you seal it off.
But we had to offset it
with pool noodles.
Pool noodles.
Every motor speed controller
and position relay
has a 20 amp auto reset circuit breaker.
We had five cameras, sir,
all connected to one video line,
and we could switch between the cameras
depending on what we needed to see.
The force is normal
to the surface of the object
and thus collinear with the radius
of curvature for the gripper at that point.
Great! Can you explain that
in layman's terms?
Why did you decide
to put the ROV electronics on board?
Due to the inefficiency of the motors.
They were 12 volts, 20 amps.
Why did you use inefficient motors?
'Cause we didn't have money
for the efficient ones.
Our budget was $12,540.
The ROV itself? $18,863.
- Just under eight, sir.
- 8,000?
No, sir! $800.
Really, $787.16.
But that doesn't include the tampons,
I don't know how much they cost.
We had a leak and tampons can, like,
absorb, you know, like 80 cc's of water.
What's the difference between
weight, mass and density?
Weight is how much the Earth pulls on you.
Gravity and everything.
Mass is how much stuff
you're made out of.
Like, I got a lot of mass,
but I'm not dense,
'cause density is
how close together all the stuff is.
No, sir. No outside help at all.
We had to use 22 gauge wire
for the tether.
Nope! Did it all ourselves.
I know that one.
And just one last thing.
Are you sure that your advisor
didn't do anything he wasn't supposed to?
No.
No?
Not really.
Not really, Luis?
It wasn't anything big,
I swear, it's just...
Just what?
Mr. Cameron donated $134.63
when we were short
at RAKS hardware store.
Thank you, that's all we need.
- No, but...
- That's all we need.
- How'd it go?
- Did you answer their questions?
You knew everything about the ROV
electronics and the control console?
Yeah.
I'm really proud of you, Luis.
Yeah, come here, big guy. Come on.
I pledge allegiance to the flag...
I was fully clothed!
I was pulled out of the bottom.
I was like,
I was gonna eat this, but if I go home,
I don't want my mom
to be cleaning up after me.
My mom always told me,
stop after the third piece.
Hey, and just so you know,
we did look great in your T-shirts.
I bet you did.
You remember everything you said?
About you and me, about not giving up?
You were right.
I have to face
whatever comes my way
and I can't hide anymore.
- I realize something else, too.
- What's that?
I love you.
Hey, that's your girl, right there,
from Cornell. Go talk to her.
- Come on.
- I'm waiting for the right time.
- She's right there!
- Okay, okay, I'm going!
Okay, folks,
everybody take your seats, please.
On to the awards.
But before we get to the top three,
the judges have added an award
for Special Achievement.
Now this award goes to
a team that really surprised us.
We've never given an award
to a high school team
during the college competition before.
And there's never been
a team quite like them.
And they are...
Carl Hayden Community High School.
So, it's a pity prize.
Come on up, Carl Hayden,
and receive your special award.
Special, like,
we're on the short bus or something.
You guys are in the big leagues, okay,
so hold your heads up.
Go get the award.
Go get it.
Felicidades, guys!
Did that guy just say "felicidades"?
There goes third, I guess.
Forget about the judge
and forget about all of it.
And think about how far we've come.
And everything that we've gained
that no one can take away from you.
Third place goes to Cornell.
Second place goes to...
MIT.
Wow, so,
that means Virginia Tech overtook MIT.
Hey, this is just the beginning.
Okay, I promise you guys.
One day, a team from Carl Hayden
is gonna win this thing.
And when they do, know it was
because of what we started together.
Ladies and gentlemen, it is my honor
to announce that first prize
in the U.S.
Underwater Robotics Championship
goes to...
Carl Hayden Community High School.
Carl Hayden Community High School!
We won?
No matter what happens up there,
I don't want the word "Hooters"
coming out of your mouth.
- Amazing!
- We did it.
It's Fredi! Guess what?
What? Yes!
Dr. Cameron, come here!
You did it, guys! You did it.
Attention, students and faculty.
I have a special announcement.
Just moments ago, placing first
in the Fifth Annual
Underwater Robotics Competition,
Carl Hayden Community High School!
Hey, Fredi!
Wow! You made it!
Do you guys need a moment?
Thanks for making it awkward.
Are you guys hungry 'cause I have
an uneaten chicken dinner on my table.
No, thanks.
The three of us ate on the plane.
The three of you?
Spent the whole plane ride
telling him who his son is.
Gwen, how did you get him on the plane?
I told him he could take a swing at you
when he got here.
Thank you, thank you.
Did you catch the...
Yeah.
Lorenzo! Get your butt over here!
Come on!
Where is he? Lorenzo!
Go.
Hey!
It's good to see you.
I'm Cristian.
- Hi. Lizzy.
- Lizzy.
Hey, Luis! Fantastic job, man.
You rocked that interview.
I just wanna thank you
for not disqualifying us.
For what?
Mr. Cameron giving us that money.
Everyone gets their materials paid for.
Why would you think that disqualifies you?
'Cause when we asked him for money,
that's what he told us.
Well, maybe he's just cheap.
In 2009, he graduated
from Arizona State University
with a degree in mechanical engineering.
This story of Oscar Vazquez
is a story of America,
and it's the story of the Dream Act.
This young man determined
to serve in our military
was turned away as undocumented.
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org